From: IJCAI 2017 PC Chair <pcchair@ijcai-17.org>
Subject: IJCAI 2017 Speaker Instructions
Date: July 19, 2017 at 23:56:04 PDT
To: oschulte@cs.sfu.ca
Reply-To: IJCAI 2017 PC Chair <pcchair@ijcai-17.org>

Dear Author,
We are one month away from the start of IJCAI 2017. In preparation of your presentation at IJCAI please read carefully the instructions below. These instructions can also be found at https://ijcai-17.org/speakers-instructions.html.
SPEAKER INSTRUCTIONS
All papers published in the proceedings have an oral presentation at IJCAI 2017 and some have also a poster presentation. Speakers should bring their slides loaded on a USB and upload them at the Speaker Preparation Room (Room 215) with the assistance of a technician; they are not to be uploaded directly in to the presentation rooms. The Speaker Preparation Room will be open every day of the conference, and you should upload your presentation slides at least one full session before your allocated session commences so you have enough time to test your presentation.

The rooms will be equipped with a lectern and microphone, as well as a laser pointer. The lecterns in the rooms are interactive with built in computer.

Make way to your session room ten minutes before your session starts and make yourself known to the session chair.

MAIN TRACK SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

The IJCAI main track technical program consists of both oral presentations and poster presentations.

Each paper is allocated 15 minutes of talk time including Q&A. It is important to present a high-level perspective of one’s contributions in each session. It is recommended that presenters leave two minutes for one or two questions at the end of their presentations, and then answer the rest of their questions at the posters during the breaks.

All main track authors are requested to present posters to further explain their work during the half day of the presentations.

The size of the available panels will be A0 size in vertical format (1189 mm in height x 841 mm in width).

All posters will be exhibited for half a day in each morning or afternoon in which the corresponding oral presentation is given. Boards will be found in front of the room where the oral presentation will be given. Authors are required to be present during poster sessions and breaks (morning or afternoon) at their poster boards. Tape and other material to help authors with their posters will be made available by the local committee.

Your poster must be displayed in the board that is labelled with your paper id. You must hang your poster before the half day presentations start, that is before 8:30 in the morning and before 14:00 in the afternoon. You must remove your poster at the end of each half day presentations, that is, morning posters must be removed right after 12:30 and afternoon posters after 18:30

The IJCAI program committee will unmount and destroy all remaining posters after 30 minutes of the given time.

For your convenience, the local committee has found a few local printing shops that can help you print your posters onsite in Melbourne. They also take email orders and have pick-up services:

* http://www.snap.com.au/snap-melbourne--little-collins-street.html

* http://www.kwikkopy.com.au/browse-centres/bourke-street

* https://www.officeworks.com.au/shop/officeworks/storepage/W346/VIC/Bourke-St-Melbourne

We would like to add that these shops are not part of the IJCAI organisation, and IJCAI bears no responsibility for their services.

AUTONOMY AND AI TRACK SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

The IJCAI Autonomy and AI track program consists only of oral presentations, with no poster presentations. Each paper is allocated 15 minutes of talk time including Q&A.

At the end of all the presentations, 30 minutes will be allocated for a combined discussion, in panel format, of the papers and the main topic of the session. Presenters are expected to participate in this panel discussion, and the session chair will moderate the discussion.

EARLY CAREER SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

The IJCAI Early Career program consists only of oral presentations, with no poster presentations. Each early career researcher is allocated 30 minutes of talk time including Q&A.

JOURNAL TRACK SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

The IJCAI Journal Track program consists only of oral presentations, with no poster presentations. Each paper is allocated 20 minutes of talk time including Q&A.

BEST SISTER CONFERENCES TRACK SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

The IJCAI Best Sister Conferences Track program consists only of oral presentations, with no poster presentations. Each paper is allocated 20 minutes of talk time including Q&A.

Carles
IJCAI 2017 PC Chair
